One of the challenges of face recognition is that you need to solve the one-shot learning problem. What that means is that for most face recognition applications you need to be able to recognize a person given just one single image, or given just one example of that person's face. And, historically, deep learning algorithms don't work well if you have only one training example.

Let's say you have a database of four pictures of employees in you're organization. Now let's say someone shows up at the office and they want to be let through the turnstile. What the system has to do is, despite ever having seen only one image of each employee, it needs to recognize that the person who showed up at the turnstile is actually one of the employees. And, in contrast, if it sees someone that's not in this database, then it should recognize that this is not any of the four persons in the database. So in the one shot learning problem, you have to learn from just one example to recognize the person again.

And you need this for most face recognition systems use, because you might have only one picture of each of your employees or of your team members in your employee database. So one approach you could try is to input the image of the person, feed it too a ConvNet. And have it output a label, y, using a softmax unit with five outputs corresponding to each of these four persons or none of the above. But this really doesn't work well. Because if you have such a small training set it is really not enough to train a robust neural network for this task. And also what if a new person joins your team? So now you have 5 persons you need to recognize, so there should now be six outputs, which means you have to retrain the ConvNet everytime a new member joins. That just doesn't seem like a good approach.

So instead, to make this work, what you're going to do instead is learn a similarity function. In particular, you want a neural network to learn a function which going to denote d, which inputs two images and outputs the degree of difference between the two images. So if the two images are of the same person, you want this to output a small number. And if the two images are of two very different people you want it to output a large number. So during recognition time, if the degree of difference between them is less than some threshold called τ, which is a hyperparameter, then you would say they are the same person, otherwise you will say they are different. And so this is how you address the face verification problem.

To use this for a recognition task, what you do is, given this new picture, you will use the function d to compare the new image to all of the images in the database, then the ID of the employee whose image has the lowest degree of difference, will be the final output. And in contrast, if someone not in your database shows up, as you use the function d to make all of these pairwise comparisons, hopefully d will output have a very large number for all pairwise comparisons. And then you say that this is not any one of the four persons in the database. Notice how this allows you to solve the one-shot learning problem. So long as you can learn this function d, which inputs a pair of images and tells you, basically, if they're the same person or different persons. Then if you have someone new join your team, you can add a fifth person to your database, and it just works fine.