Lets say you've trained a ConvNet, and you want to visualize what the hidden units in different layers are computing. You will start with the earlier layers, for example, layer 1 and pick a unit. And suppose you scan through your training sets and find out what are the images or what are the image patches that maximize that unit's activation. So in other words pause your training set through your neural network, and figure out what is the image that maximizes that particular unit's activation. Now, notice that a hidden unit in layer 1, will see only a relatively small portion of the image. So, if you plot what activated unit's activation, it makes makes sense to plot just a small image patch, because that is all of the image that that particular unit sees. So if you pick one hidden unit and find the nine input images that maximizes that unit's activation, you might find nine image patches. Lets say that it is looking for diagonal edges. So, you will find that the images on which the unit's activation is maximum is the images whose patches have a diagonal edge. Now, you can then pick a different hidden unit in layer 1 and do the same thing. It might recognize horizontal edges. Then you pick another unit, and that might recognize vertical edges and has an affinity for green patches, and so on. So this gives you a sense that, units, train hidden units in layer 1, they're often looking for relatively simple features such as edge or a particular shade of color.

But now you have repeated this procedure several times for nine hidden units in layer 1. What if you do this for some of the hidden units in the deeper layers of the neuron network, to see what is the neural network learning in the deeper layers. So in the deeper layers, a hidden unit will see a larger region of the image. Where at the extreme end each pixel could hypothetically affect the output of these later layers of the neural network. So later units are actually seen larger image patches. So, for example, in layer 2, some units are activated if they find round shapes, while some look for very thin vertical lines, etc.

If we go further and look at layer 3, we will see that the units are now detecting much larger patches of the images. You will see that some unit is detecting round shapes, so it is actually getting activated if it detects some cars tyres, etc. This pattern of the units detecting larger and larger patches you will see as you go deeper into the network. 