If you're working on a brand new machine learning application, one of the pieces of advice I often give people is that, I think you should build your first system quickly and then iterate.

I've worked on speech recognition for many years. And if you're thinking of building a new speech recognition system, there's actually a lot of directions you could go in and a lot of things you could prioritize. For example, there are specific techniques for making speech recognition systems more robust to noisy background. And noisy background could mean cafe noise, like a lot of people talking in the background or car noise, the sounds of cars and highways or other types of noise. There are ways to make a speech recognition system more robust to accented speech, etc. more generally, for almost any machine learning application, there could be 50 different directions you could go in and each of these directions is reasonable and would make your system better. But the challenge is, how do you pick which of these to focus on.

what I would recommend you do, if you're starting on building a brand new machine learning application, is to build your first system quickly and then iterate. What I mean by that is I recommend that you first quickly set up a dev/test set and metric. So this is really deciding where to place your target. And if you get it wrong, you can always move it later, but just set up a target somewhere. And then I recommend you build an initial machine learning system quickly. Find the training set, train it and see. Start to see and understand how well you're doing against your dev/test set and your valuation metric. When you build your initial system, you will then be able to use bias/variance analysis which we talked about earlier as well as error analysis which we talked about just in the last several videos, to prioritize the next steps. In particular, if error analysis causes you to realize that a lot of the errors are from the speaker being very far from the microphone, which causes special challenges to speech recognition, then that will give you a good reason to focus on techniques to address this called far-field speech recognition. Of all the value of the initial system is having some learned system, having some trained system allows you to localize bias/variance, to try to prioritize what to do next, allows you to do error analysis, look at some mistakes, to figure out all the different directions you can go in, which ones are actually the most worthwhile.

This advice applies less strongly if you're working on an application area in which you have significant prior experience. It also applies a bit less strongly if there's a significant body of academic literature that you can draw on for pretty much the exact same problem you're building. So, for example, there's a large academic literature on face recognition, and if you're trying to build a face recognizer, it might be okay to build a more complex system from the get-go by building on this large body of academic literature. But if you are tackling a new problem for the first time, then I would encourage you to really not overthink or not make your first system too complicated.